// Exercise 1: Calculate the Sum of Two Numbers

Create three integer values of num1, num2 and num3

Take the two integers num1 and num2, add them together and take the result and assign it to num3

// Exercise 2: Check if a Number is Even or Odd

Take a number, use the modulus operator to retrieve the remainder value and make it something like:
"Enter a number " Assign value to the num1
Use modulus and take num % 2. If the remainder == 0, write even. If the remainder is 1, write odd.


// Exercise 3: 
Write pseudo code that will perform the following.    

a) Read in 5 separate numbers.   
b) Calculate the average of the five numbers.
c) Find the smallest (minimum) and largest (maximum) of the five entered numbers.
d) Write out the results found from steps b and c with a message describing what they are

A)

create string response
create decimal num1, num2, num3, num4, num5

"Please enter a number"  Take response, convert to integer and assign value to int1

"Please enter another number" Take response, convert to integer and assign value to int2

"Please enter a third number" Take response, convert to integer and assign value to int3

"Please enter a forth number" Take response, convert to integer and assign value to int4

"Please enter the fifth number" Take response, convert to integer and assign value to int5

"Thank you. You wrote (num1, num2, num3, num4, num5)"


B)

create decimal average. This is a decimal value in the situation where the average does not lead to a whole number.

Take num1 + num2 + num3 + num4 + num5, then divide the total by 5. Assign value to average.


C)

create variable maximumNumber

For greatest number, take num1 >= num2. If true, take num 1 >= num 3. If true, take num1 >= num 4. If true, take num 1 >= num5. If true, write that num1 has the greatest value. At anytime that the number on the left produces a false result, use an if-else statement to compare num2 to num3 and so on. Make pathways for all routes within if-else statements. Assign the final result to maximumNumber


create variable minimumNumber

For the smallest number, do the same thing as above, but use the <= sign instead. Assign the final result to minimumNumber.


D)

Write out "The average of the numbers you entered is (average)."

Write out "The greatest number from that list is (maximumNumber)"

Write out "The smallest number from that list is (minimumNumber)"


-- END --
